---
title: QRM
toc: true
mathjax: true
---

# Allocate Risk Measure

risk allocation= risk diversification : Allocation of proportional risk to all parties to a contract, usually through a risk premium.

risk premium: Difference between a risk-free return (such as from government bonds) and the total return from a risky investment (such as equity stock).

## HW 2b

3 lines. each line a column. Liability/Cat/fire loss. (details of fire loss outside of data table).

liability and cat is in hw1. here only simulate fire loss.

##### fire loss is Pareto(alpha, theta).

here alpha and theta all follow gamma, given mean and variance. ->transform them into a,b parameters.

*! alpha and beta is correlated with correlation p%.*

Look at slide p22. construct u,w, they are p% correlation.

use u in the inverse gamma of alpha. use w in the inverse gamma of theta. Then alpha and theta are p% correlated.

*pareto inverse*. use direct calculation. $(RAND()^{-1/\alpha}-1)\theta$









### HW 6a

Financial pricing theory says: difference is the price of risk- so it is the charge for taking the risk

Using Exponential  transformed CDF : $ F^*(x)=(e^{k F(x)}-1)/(e^k-1) $.  use k such that risk measure:(transformed mean - original mean) is 30000. Use slover or goal-seek, starting value of k around 5.

price each line as its mean using transformed probability. ? what 3 line? how to price it?

 ?Allocate TVaR by Euler method. spread 30,000 in proportion.

?spread assumed capital 200,000 to each line in proportion to the transformed means.



### HW 6b

do 2000 insurance loss simulations and financial simulations

For the 1st and 2nd year. Premium are invested in to treasury bond. ? what is the rate for treasury bond?  






### Excel

data table: if column is number of simulations:1,2,3,4,5....; chose all the cells including 1,2,3,4....; select data table.



poisson inverse: poisinv(probability, mean) ; example: poisinv (RAND(),5)

#### select cells

ctrl + arrow : go to the last cell

select large cells without scrolling:  press the first cell; click the name box, enter the last cell; hold shift, press enter.





# Copulas



###2 dimension definition
C:[0,1]^2 -> [0,1],c(u,v) is a copulas function. and here u,v represents probability- results of comulative function F(x),F(y).
so we can also write C(F^-1(x),F^-1(y)) in terms of x and y.

###HW8a
simulate 500 u and p both using RAND(). use HTR function to get v. sort data by v.
Now we want to get distribution for L and R. Note that we only get discret simulated data, so I want to  graph L and R as shown in slide 19.
make z 1/500 to 500/500.
L(z)= C(z,z)/z. and C(z,z) is the number of pairs which u<z&v,z. use "countif" function in excel to get it.

??how should we calculate Chi when L(z) is zero? LN(L(z))  #NUM!

?? why in the end, R value appears to be abnormal?

---
Others
 compute graph in excel: don't use chart. use scatter(x,y).



# HW9

foreign exchange

Our correlation model is actually better than many in the industry

#### modeling credit risk (like default and..)

pd: probability of default

lpd: degree if loss if default
